---
title: "My Path to Shaolin"
---

When I sat down and started writing my bio for this website, it just wasn't turning out how I wanted. Rather than writing a paragraph about how Sifu Chris did this and then Sifu Chris did that, I thought it might be more interesting to just share my story about how I came to practice the wondrous arts I now also teach.

It started on the internet. That won't come as a shock to those who know me. I'm a web software developer by day, after all, so I spend a lot of time on my computer. I was 24, living in New Orleans, and looking for an interesting way to get back in shape after graduating from college and settling into life as a Responsible Working Adult. I'd been an active child, balancing soccer, piano, basketball (earlier), and taekwondo (later), but I'd spent college <s>foolishly</s> *ambitiously* trying to double major in both Computer Science and Music Performance (I play jazz and classical piano) in 4 years. I just couldn't make the time to stay regularly active.

But now I was looking for the martial art that I first fell in love with as a child: Shaolin Kung Fu. Only what I mostly found were schools who split their techniques into traditional ones they performed only in sets and kickboxing-like ones they used in sparring. This surprised me, although I knew nothing about the combat benefits of traditional kung fu patterns nor that it was now uncommon to find kung fu schools that used them directly in sparring. I just knew that part of the reason I wanted to practice kung fu was to be able to fight like the actors in the old school kung fu movies I still love. If I couldn't do that, what was the point of learning kung fu?

After finding a couple of promising schools that didn't quite compel me to contact them, I stumbled across my Sigung's [site](http://www.shaolin.org) and read an [article](http://flowingzen.com/366/shaolin-sparring/) my Sifu wrote about Shaolin Wahnam's sparring methodology. That article got me super excited! I knew enough from my excellent taekwondo training to see that practicing this sparring methodology would enable me to fight using real kung fu patterns. And not only that, the article presented the argument that fighting this way is more advantageous than more modern, kickboxing-based methods! I didn't know if it was true, and I certainly didn't know if chi and internal force were real, but I did know that I had to try this kung fu out and judge it for myself.

Even though I lived in New Orleans and the closest Shaolin Wahnam instructor was about 500 miles away in Gainesville, Florida, I got in touch with my Sifu and -once he confirmed that having a periodic lesson and practicing at home the rest of the time was a viable training model- scheduled my first lesson at the beginning of April 2005. The plan was for me to get up early Saturday morning, make the 8 hour drive to Gainesville, have a 2-hour lesson in the evening, have another 2-hour lesson Sunday morning, then drive back to New Orleans, arriving home Sunday night. I'd happened to make a couple of friends in Gainesville just a month or two before my first lesson, and they generously let me stay at their place while I was in town. If the kung fu was what I thought it could be, I'd repeat that schedule every 1 or 2 months.

My first lesson exceeded my expectations. I learned some basic Shaolin Cosmos Chi Kung and Shaolin Kung Fu and had my first tastes of both chi and internal force. The chi, which I first felt during Lifting the Sky and chi flow, felt strange and new yet somehow totally natural, like it had always been there but I was just now becoming aware of it and able to cultivate it. Feeling internal force was an even more dramatic experience.

Since I was fortunate enough to have a private lesson, I got to do partner practice with my Sifu while learning some fundamental patterns. We practiced the four patterns that comprise the basic middle and high hand attacks and defenses of our syllabus: Black Tiger Steals the Heart, Single Tiger Emerges from Cave, White Snake Shoots Venom, and Golden Dragon Plays with Water. Now I should mention that my Sifu is a head shorter than me and weighed at least 30 pounds less than me. He is not a big guy, although he's always *looked* like he is somehow strong (I now realize this is because he has a lot of internal force). Anyway, I remember wincing a bit when his Single Tigers hit my arm, even though he was clearly going easy on me. I internally reasoned it was because of the motion of the Single Tiger and his ability to consistently hit the *exact same spot* of my arm each time. But when we switched to White Snakes and Golden Dragons, I had no reasonable explanation. Anyone who has experienced a well-executed Golden Dragon knows that it is incredibly soft and gentle. Yet somehow, even my Sifu's Golden Dragons hurt! It felt like his arms were solid wooden rods. He explained to me that this was a result of internal force and that, if I practiced well, I would gain the same ability. I immediately set my first personal kung fu objective: to build enough force to not get bruises on my arms from gentle partner work with my Sifu!

As you can imagine, I was immediately hooked. I knew that this was the martial art I wanted to explore. And after a short time, I could see myself practicing Shaolin Kung Fu for the rest of my life. Seven years later, I feel even more strongly about that. Everyday I fall more in love with Shaolin Kung Fu. While my life was pretty good before kung fu, and I had no major illnesses or injuries I was trying to heal (although a sprained ankle that had never quite healed 100% fixed itself a couple of months into my practice), my kung fu practice has made my life unimaginably better. I met my beautiful wife through kung fu! And my life in general has steadily molded into my ideal vision of it. It feels like I can set any vision I choose for myself, and if I work sincerely at it, I will achieve it as a matter of course. I can't tell you how empowering that is for me! I work for myself (something I was always interested in but too scared to do), have a job I love that provides interesting work that I make good money doing, have a tremendous work/life balance, travel and have friends around the world (I had never been out of the country before my first kung fu course in Malaysia), and I'm less thick-headed and clueless when it comes to supporting my wife. It just feels like I can more immediately understand what the core of a problem is and what to do/how to solve it. Good days are better than ever (and more frequent), and the odd bad day isn't as bad as it should be. Plus, I no longer suffer from the annoying seasonal allergies I used to get.

I have no doubt that my Sifu, Sigung, and the Shaolin Arts I practice diligently are the reason why I experience these incredible benefits. I've done a lot of different activities in my life, and I've found nothing that provides anything close to the same amount of benefit I get from practicing traditional Shaolin Kung Fu. And now I get to share the art I love so much with deserving students where I live! It's an absolute joy to watch my students gain the incredible benefits this art brings, especially knowing that I have a hand in it.

If you want to directly experience what I'm talking about for yourself, I hope you'll contact me or another Shaolin Wahnam instructor in your area. Regardless, I wish you well and hope you've enjoyed my story.


Kind Regards,

Sifu Chris Didyk


*[Sigung]: Grandmaster Wong Kiew Kit
*[Sigung's]: Grandmaster Wong Kiew Kit
*[my Sifu]: Sifu Anthony Korahais
