---
title: "Shaolin Kung Fu is an Internal Art"
---

The art I teach can be generally classified as Southern Shaolin Kung Fu, which has a reputation for being hard and external. But the Southern Shaolin I teach is a powerful *internal* art. Instead of relying on muscular strength to generate power, students use chi and internal force (or in western terms, energy). Acupuncture uses the same concepts, so if you've ever been to a good acupuncturist, you probably have some idea what I'm talking about. With chi and internal force, factors like age, gender, and size differences don't matter in combat. In fact, people who practice genuine internal arts improve with age. I'm nearly 40 years younger than Grandmaster Wong, and I'm much bigger than he is, but he has such an incredible amount of internal force that if he doesn't let me move him, I can't!


## Shaolin Kung Fu is an Internal Art ##
In my school, we practice what could generally be called Southern Shaolin Kung Fu. However, most Southern Shaolin is considered hard and external, whereas ours is internal. What makes it internal and what does that actually mean?

Simply put, instead of relying on muscular strength for power, internal styles use chi and internal force. This is why we say that age, gender, and size differences in combat don't matter with chi in-play. I'm much bigger and younger than Grandmaster Wong, but if he doesn't let me move him, it's not gonna happen! Unfortunately, chi and internal force have a bad rap in some circles because there are some teachers who treat it as some sort of magical force that students can't begin to fathom until they've practiced for 20 years or some other nonsense. **Chi and internal force are not only real, they are natural and easy to cultivate if you know how.** In our school, rather than wrap such concepts in a shroud of mystery, we emphasize direct experience. Different people have different levels of sensitivity to it, so they may or may not feel chi from the first lesson, but most importantly, regardless of whether they feel it or not, they get the results of cultivating chi. What are the results? Improved health (not just the kind you get from doing regular physical exercise), more energy for work and play, increased mental clarity, and a stronger spirit.

When I say "a stronger spirit", I'm talking about spiritual cultivation. Most people associate that with meditation and/or religion, but anyone of any religion (or non-religion) can cultivate their spirit and practice Shaolin Kung Fu. Spiritual cultivation also includes character development. You literally become a better, happier, more compassionate person by cultivating your spirit correctly, and because spiritual cultivation is built into our Shaolin Kung Fu, these benefits are a direct and expected result for my students. Again, you need not take my word for it. Direct experience over a period of a few months (to be conservative) will speak for itself.

So Shaolin Cosmos Chi Kung along with stance-training are our primary methods of both improving the circulation and increasing the volume of chi within our bodies.

Footwork and combat application are how we learn to put chi to work for us and use kung fu for fighting. To my knowledge, Shaolin Wahnam is one of the few schools that systematically trains students to fight using traditional kung fu stances and patterns. We do it not because it's cool (although, to be honest, it totally is), but because the stances and patterns are the result of the best fighting methods developed by past masters, evolved over thousands of years. For most of that time, their lives depended upon their fighting ability (which thankfully isn't the case for us). There is definitely an initial learning curve as the stances and patterns feel awkward and unnatural at first. But after awhile, the combat advantages they afford come to life. I'm not going to sit here and pretend that just because I practice Shaolin Kung Fu, I can destroy Anderson Silva. After all, skill is a huge factor and fighters using other arts are still certainly formidable. But I have no doubt that fighting with my kung fu gives me the best chance of survival, and if I ever find myself in a situation where I have to fight for my life, you can bet that I'll use kung fu. More practically, when I have fun sparring with my classmates, I use Shaolin Kung Fu.
