---
title: "About Sifu Chris"
---

I first fell in love with Shaolin Kung Fu the same way so many others did -by watching classic Shaw Brothers Kung Fu movies! But the first martial art I practiced was American-style Taekwondo under the tutelage of 1988 Olympic Gold Medalist Arlene Limas. I trained hard, and after a few years, I earned my first degree black belt and became an assistant instructor before moving to New Orleans to attend Tulane University on an academic scholarship. While at Tulane, I took a break from practicing martial arts, but I was fortunate to continue learning from world-class teachers, soaking in all I could from Ellis Marsalis and Peter Martin in jazz piano lessons and Faina Lushtak in classical piano lessons. At the same time, I played with various jazz musicians around New Orleans and pursued a degree in Computer Science, graduating Magna cum Laude.

After college, I stayed in New Orleans and started my career in computer programming. Soon I started looking for a fun way to stay in shape and I realized that I missed practicing martial arts. I was determined to try out Shaolin Kung Fu, so I researched as much as I could. I was surprised to learn that most Kung Fu schools I came across didn't teach how to fight using the beautiful traditional patterns found in their sets, but instead used kickboxing. For me, that was a non-starter -if I was going to practice Shaolin Kung Fu, I wanted to learn to fight like the heroes in the movies! After all, why would the past Kung Fu masters develop such intricate patterns and not use them in their well-documented history of life-and-death combat?

And then I read an article that changed my life. It described a sparring methodology for learning to fight using traditional Kung Fu patterns. My previous Taekwondo training enabled me to see that this methodology would work! Intrigued, I read more articles on www.shaolin.org and saw mentions of chi and internal force. To be honest, while I had heard of them before, I didn't know if they really existed or not, but I figured that the sparring methodology article seemed legit, so it was worth finding out if chi and internal force were real, too. I contacted the author of the article, Sifu Anthony Korahais, about lessons. The trouble was that I lived in New Orleans, and Sifu Anthony lived an 8-hour drive away in Florida. Obviously, attending a regular class was out of the question, but was it possible to progress well by coming to Florida for lessons once every month or two and practicing in between? Fortunately, his answer was, "Yes". In fact, he had to travel halfway around the world to Malaysia to learn from his Sifu!

I had my first lesson in April 2005 and have been practicing ever since.
